Now it's always important to validate your apps also on real devices and on the different operating
systems, the different platforms you're building for,
that's especially important when working with native device features like the device camera with the
user location, device storage,
obviously because you want to ensure that this does not just work on your nice little Android emulator
here but also on a real Android device
and of course also on iOS and real iOS devices and therefore I'll now test this application here both
on a real Android device and on the real iOS device.
Now for iOS, I actually won't even test it on a emulator first because the iOS simulator doesn't support
the camera,
where here on Android,
you have this dummy camera which you can use, on iOS,
you got nothing like that
and therefore on iOS, you can't work with the camera.
So let me now test this application on iOS and therefore, I'll quit this running process.
Now I attached my iPhone but unfortunately, it's not detected automatically here,
it's no problem though, we can simply open up Xcode and I showed you how to launch the app on different
devices earlier in a separate section,
so go back to that section if you're not sure anymore how that worked. In the end with Xcode, you should
open another project, go into your project folder and there under iOS, open that iOS folder and then
here, select that runner project,
make sure your iPhone, the connected iPhone is selected here and then click that play button
but before you do that, make sure you choose a development team here,
otherwise it will not work.
So click play thereafter
and in case you're getting an error here, like I do, go back into your project first and there in the terminal,
run Flutter clean which will basically clean up your project and set it up from scratch again
and thereafter, run Flutter
build ios in here, so that it builds this for iOS one time before you try launching it with the help
of Xcode because that will install some dependencies, some iOS dependencies which are then required
by Xcode,
so make sure you're running this first. If you're facing any issues during this step by the way,
close Xcode and quit this running process and rerun Flutter build
iOS here and now once this is all done, let's go back into Xcode here, open another project again and
now select your entire iOS folder,
so not just your runner Xcode project but the entire iOS folder. Open that, now in here with runner
selected,
make sure you have a team assigned, you have your iPhone selected here and then click the play button
and now this should actually succeed in running your app, building your app again and then running your
app on your connected iOS device. So let's wait for that to finish and wait for the app to come up on
my connected iPhone and
now here's the app running on my iPhone and now if I tap the plus here and I enter test here and I now
take a picture, I may ask, in German because I'm German, whether I want to grant access to the
camera and I will choose yes here and now as a proof, I'll take a picture of my monitor here. So let's confirm
that, use that photo and here's the preview.
Now you'll notice that this is now rotated here and if I add this place, it's very tiny here
but this is actually the rotated picture.
So that's it on iOS,
let's now have a look at this on a real Android device. So I connected my Android device and Flutter
is detecting it here,
so let me now simply launch the app here through Visual Studio Code again on my connected Android
device to test it there.
So here's the app running on Android,
let me go to a new screen there, enter test here,
take a picture, also of my screen here, confirm that and click add place and here it's working as well.
So this is working on both Android and iOS devices
and with that tested, let's now continue working on this application and let's make sure we don't just save
the file, the image on our device but that we actually save the whole place including the title and later
also including the location.